NERDICARD
A Game of Mathematical Expression
This document is a WIP. Disregard most of what is on here as we are still working on the
finalized Game Logic.

Core Concept
NERDICARD is a strategic card game where players construct and manipulate complex
mathematical expressions to achieve the highest value. Players utilize Function,
Variable, and Number cards to build their expressions, engaging in a battle of
mathematical prowess.

Gameplay

Setup:

Card Types:
      ○ Function Cards: Introduce mathematical functions or concepts (e.g.,
           logarithmic, trigonometric, exponential, polynomial, roots,
           polynomial root, power).
      ○ Variable Cards: Represent variables (x, y, z, etc.) that can be
           assigned values.
      ○ Number Cards: Provide numerical values for calculations within
           expressions.
           ■ Eg: Euler's number, Pi, Zero, Infinity, imaginary unit, golden
           ratio
Expression Building:
      ○ Players construct expressions by combining Function, Variable, and
           Number cards on their playing area.
      ○ The arrangement of cards determines the mathematical operation
           performed.
      ○ Players can create complex expressions by chaining multiple cards
           together.
Evaluation:

○ A player can choose to evaluate their expression at any point
during their turn.
○ To evaluate, the player assigns numerical values to all variables
within the expression.
○ The resulting numerical value determines the expression's strength.
Victory Condition:
○ The game ends when a predetermined maximum expression value
is reached.
○ The player with the highest evaluated expression at the end of the
game wins.

Additional Rules
○ Card Limitations: There might be limits on the number of cards a
player can hold or play in a turn.
○ Expression Complexity: Rules can be implemented to prevent
excessively complex expressions.
○ Special Cards: Additional card types like Spell, Trap, or Artifact
cards can be introduced to add strategic elements.
○ Scoring System: Instead of a maximum value, a scoring system
based on expression complexity or accuracy could be implemented.

Example Gameplay

Player A starts by playing a "Polynomial" Function card. They follow this with a
"Variable" card (x) and a "Number" card (2), creating the expression x^2 + 2.
Player B responds by playing a "Trigonometric" Function card, followed by a
"Variable" card (x) and a "Number" card (pi/2), creating the expression
sin(pi/x/2). The game continues with players alternating turns, building upon
their expressions and attempting to outscore their opponent.

Further explained
Natural Numbers,
which are any numbers that are whole and that are not negative (including 0 as
a natural number is often debated)
Irrational Numbers,
maybe players can find uses in a number 'slightly over 3' or maybe use them to
counter some enemy attacks and operations, for our case, irrational numbers
may be thought as, numbers that are not an element of the set of Natural
numbers.
Matrices
Vectors and Matrices can still be used in normal math, if you didnt know. you
can do whetever you like to them, it just takes a few odd algorithms to figure
out, like you can have e^matrix, and still get something that makes sense. the
enemy may reduce your matrix by using RREF, then trace or determinant
operation. there is plenty of strategy for countering a large matrix in the making
Complex
Complex numbers may still be used to keep score, using a simple pythagorean
theorem on 'z' can give a real number, the end of the game will do this anyways
to check scores
Theorems
the Fundamental theorem of algebra can be used on a player or enemy in any
desperate attempt of sabotage or saving ones self, as is, if you somehow build
an equation large enough or the enemy, you may use the FTA to choose a root
from your function, and sacrifice your equation for that number, this can also be
applied to the enemy, so you may be able to screw with them by giving them a
negative root. Prime factorization will split your number into a set of primes, as
you could get the set A = {2,7,647}, but there is hope to escape this and regain
your number, by using the product in the correct way, you may be able to
remultiply your natural number. Cardinality will be useful when using it on a set
that has been operated on by the power set, giving you 2^n, where n is the

number of items in your original set A, the cardinality of P, |P(n)| may be
extremely large, or just 2. these are just some logical examples.
                                                                          [
                                                                   12:23 AM
                                                                          ]
 You may also turn any number into a natural number using ceil() or floor()





References
Original reel
https://www.instagram.com/reel/C-YAwlgpZ6w/?igsh=ZHg3aHdvazl0OWV1

Turn:
1. Player 1: starts with null set ⊘
     Summons euler's number: e
2. Player 2: starts with 9002
     Activates natural log: ln
     Player 1's number becomes 1
     This actives trap card probability: P
     This activates sample space in hand: Ω
     (somehow) they activate linear search to enable searching any card in their deck
3. Player 1 (when did this turn actually started?)
     Then Player 1 activated Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic: Player 2 number
     gets decomposed in prime factors 2x7x643
     Player 1 activates well Well-Ordering Principle to get least element of Player 2
     factors
     a. Player 2: number now is 2
4. Player 2:
     a. Player 2 activates Complex Plain (Domain expansion)
         i.   Player 1 number becomes: 1+0i
              Player 2 number becomes: 2+0i
     b. Player 2 activated 90 deg rotation
         i.   Player 1 number becomes: i
     c. Player 2 activated real component Re(z)
         i.   Player 1 number becomes: 0

5. Player 1: Flips a factorial: !
a. Supposedly this would turn Player 1's number into 1
6. [video ends]

Some comments on this:
● There are "Domain Expansion cards" that affects both players and sets their
numbers in different spacer
○ Polynomials are other spaces that can be used. The general concept could
be equated within the framework of group theory.
● It's not entirely clear when the 2nd turn of player 1 started.
● Is the factorial a trap card?
○ What are the triggering conditions?
● What is the relation between sample space and linear search in gameplay
mechanics?
○ Is sample space a requirement for linear search?
Is it applied on the deck or just instantiated?
● Some parts of set and number theory seem intuitive enough to use basis for a
first iteration of the gameplay

Similar problems
● Efficiently comparing numbers with large exponents
○ https://projecteuler.net/problem=99
● Relevant for complex expressions:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squeeze_theorem

Random ideas
● How can complex equations yield meaningful numbers. Mixing and mashing
irrational numbers and integers may not be as interesting as having a set of
transformations what make intuitive sense.
○ Maybe the available transformations could be selected and tunned in a
way that makes the game more fun to play
○ A workaround could be imposing limitations of the available numbers on
which operations can be applied.
This would require cards that explicitly change the current domain of the
number or expression.
● When in polynomial space root finding could bring the player back to the
complex plane.
● Division by zero trap card
● Limits x->0 / x->inf
○ L'Hôpital's rule

● What happens with ln(0) => -inf ?
● https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euler%27s_identity
● Negative of number. Either x-1 or a 180 deg complex plane rotation could
produce this effect
● Domain expansions
○ Logarithmic scale
○ Laplace/fourier transform
● Special cases
○ What happens with functions undefined on certain point?
○ Lets say that there is a funcion that converges to zero but doesnt actually
reach that value
● Operations
○ Absolute value
○ Trace of matrix
○ Inner and outer products
○ Reciprocal 1/x => interaction with division by 0
● What about negative numbers?
● Pythagorean Identity
● Taylor series
● Derivatives
● Integrals
● How expression trees work?
○ https://docs.sympy.org/latest/tutorials/intro-tutorial/manipulation.html
Something like this:









○ How are expressions applied to the tree?
Can they be applied anywhere? On top of any node?
○ Note that